OSDOCS-13847:Generic Device Plugin Feature (#97090)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/microshift-con-understanding-generic-device-plugin.adoc

// microshift-con-understanding-generic-device-plugin.adoc
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// microshift_configuring/microshift-gdp.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="microshift-con-understanding-generic-device-plugin_{context}"]
The Generic Device Plugin (GDP) is a Kubernetes device plugin that enables applications running in pods to access host devices such as serial ports, cameras, and sound cards securely. This capability is especially important for edge and IoT environments where direct hardware interaction is a common requirement. The GDP integrates with the Kubelet to advertise available devices to the cluster and facilitate their allocation to pods without requiring elevated privileges within the container itself.

The GDP is designed to handle devices that are initialized and managed by the operating system and do not require any special initialization procedures or drivers for a pod to use them.

Here are examples of generic devices that are suitable for the GDP:

* Serial ports (for example, `/dev/ttyUSB*`, `/dev/ttyACM*`).
* Video cameras (for example, `/dev/video0`).
* Sound devices (for example, `/dev/snd`, `/dev/snd/controlC0`).

> * USB devices specified by Vendor ID and Product ID.
> * (Optional) Serial devices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* USB devices specified by Vendor ID and Product ID (or optionally device serial)
```
